dozens of Palestinians have been killed
in overnight Israeli air strikes on the
south of the Gaza Strip including
children in Rafa fears are growing that
Israeli troops could push further into
gaza's southernmost town where roughly
half of the strip's population have
taken refuge in the coming days US
Secretary of State Anthony blinkin is
expected in the region and on a visit to
Cairo the French foreign minister has
condemned talk about forced displacement
of gazin into Egypt
as the fighting continues so to do
efforts to Halt the nearly four-month
War Hamas now says Israel and
international mediators have made them a
tentative truce offer but the militant
group considered a terrorist
organization by most western states says
it is still reviewing the
details even as battles have been raging
on the ground for weeks reports of
circulated that a ceasefire between
Israel and Hamas was about to happen
Israel said discussions in Qatar had
been
productive Palestinians have called
insistently at the United Nations for a
pause in the fighting the best way to
avoid Regional
escalation is not the threat or use of
more
fire but action for an immediate
ceasefire there's also been pressure
from within Israel itself some families
of hostages want to see an end to
fighting I need a results I need I need
I need to deal with I need to see my
sister coming back and to see her
crossing the border but as I know there
is still open question that all around
it is just wasting our time and the
question is about the ceasefire and as
you know there is a people that try to
see it as a lost in combat or lost in
the war or anything else and a SE of
fire it just mean a cease of fire and to
save life an earlier cease fire last Ed
a week in November and saw more than 100
Israeli hostages released from Gaza
while food and fuel was shipped into the
besieged territory and more than 200
Palestinian prisoners were released by
Israel Hamas still holds around 130
hostages but several are believed to be
dead since then Israel's biggest backer
the US has avoided using the term
ceasefire to talk about
negotiations even while it says it's
been applying pressure behind the
scenes look we've seen um the way the
way we got those 100 hostages out was
through a one a week-long humanitarian
pause stopping a temporary stoppage in
in the fighting Israeli Prime Minister
Benjamin Netanyahu has also largely
avoided using the word ceasefire while
recognizing the need to get hostages out
of Gaza and applying strict
conditions we are working to achieve an
additional framework for the release of
our captives but I stress not at any
cost I have read lines among them we
will not finish the war we will not
remove IDF from the strip and we will
not free thousands of
terrorists we are working on all three
together and we will not concede on any
of
them despite all those obstacles the two
sides kept negotiating in Qatar what's
unclear now is how long a ceasefire will
actually
last for more on these negotiations I'm
joined Now by Oliver murnan he's theor
director of the NGO Forward Thinking
which works on conflict resolution and
mediation especially in the Middle East
welcome back to DW Mr murnan now what
can you tell us about the conditions of
the us back proposal for a fresh
ceasefire that Hamas is currently
considering well I think the problem is
the gap between the position of
Netanyahu and his government and the
Hamas um military leadership I'm told
that the Hamas leadership want a
permanent ceasefire and then to
negotiate on the principle all for all
all the hostages for all the Palestinian
prisoners Netanyahu as we've just heard
from that clip you played is determined
a there won't be a permanent ceasefire
and secondly that he will not negotiate
on that principle all for all now what I
understand the proposal that came out at
the Paris meeting last week was that
again to have these short pauses to have
a two- week pause I believe to begin
with in which whatever young people are
elderly that are still held in Gaza can
be exchanged and then to see how that
can progress but there is no talk of a
permanent ceasefire and I think that's
the root of the problem I can't see how
with the complex U mechanism also for
negotiations how they can reach um
agreement I hope I'm wrong yeah not much
rigle room are you optimistic at all
that a deal maybe not this deal but any
deal that will bring some relief to
gazin and the people waiting to get
their hostages back home will be
made the pain of the families um that
are waiting for the relatives to be
released from Gaza must be enormous I
knew the Shalit family in the five years
they suffered I got little sense of it
but at the same time what we have to
keep in in mind and in focus is that 2.3
million people in Gaza are suffering
unimaginable human conditions
lifechanging conditions even if the war
were to stop tonight the situation there
has changed people's lives forever now I
think that's what's got to be kept in
the equation and my hope for them as
well as the amilies of the hostages is
that the leadership will put as Sun said
they were protecting innocent life in
bombing um Yemen deoti Targets in Yemen
I think the same principle now must
apply in Gaza priority must be given to
protecting innocent human life US
Secretary of State Anthony blinkin is
actually heading to the Middle East to
Works towards not only the release of
the hostages but also a humanitarian
pause in Gaza to bring that relief that
you were just talking about what
leverage does he have at this
point well the US have has enormous
leverage if it will use it but I think
they're saying one thing publicly and at
the same time supplying arms that we
understand is still going on and giving
political protection to Netanyahu and
his his government to continue the war
so I I can't I think unless unless they
stop acting out of what may be
short-term political interests and apply
the universal Norms that have kept the
international order um for the past 75
years or so that he must apply those
norms and in applying them I think he
needs to say right now not putting
forward proposals that just prolong the
fighting but right now to say enough is
enough we're providing you with no more
arms all political protection you've got
to stop the fighting you've got to stop
the the continual assault on the 2.3
million people in
Gaza